# OPI-Patagonian-Andes
Analysis of orographic precipitation and isotopes in the vicinity of the Patagonian Andes (latitude 54.8 to 40.1 S)

This work is provided as support for two papers, Brandon and Hren (2022) and Chang et al. (2022), that investigate the relationship of orographic lifting in the Patagonian Andes to the precipitation produced by that lifting. 

Our analysis is based on a compilation of hydrogen and oxygen isotopic data for modern meteoric water from a 1635 x 530 km area covering the Patagonian Andes and adjacent lowlands. These data are made available here in an Excel spreadsheet, entitled “Patagonia Andes North and South Isotopes 29 Jun 2021.xlsx”. 

The compilation contains isotope analyses for 554 analyses, of which 243 were collected and analyzed by our group, and 311 were gathered from published sources. Our compilation is focused on samples that are representative of the long-term average of precipitation isotopes in the vicinity of the sample location. We distinguish between “local” samples, where precipitation was collected at a single point, and “catchment” samples, where water samples were collected from rivers, and thus are representive of the pricipitation that fell in the catchment above that point.

We use the Orographic Precipitaton and Isotopes (OPI) programs (Brandon, 2022) to analysis a subset of these samples (n = 305), which were selected as representative of primary meteoric water (unaffected by post-precipitation evaporation). The repository here includes all of the input files used for the OPI analysis, and the output generated by the programs, along with a detailed descrption of the results.

Brandon (2022) refers to an open source release of the OPI programs, and a detailed description of how the programs work, and how to use them for analysis of precipitation isotope data. A synethic example is included there for demonstration purposes.

Mark Brandon, Yale University September 26, 2022

References
Brandon, M.T. (2022). MATLAB programs for the analysis of orographic precipitation and isotopes, with implications for the study of paleotopography (OPI 3.6). Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7063327, https://github.com/foret37/OPI-Orographic-Precipitation-and-Isotopes/tree/v3.6.002

Brandon. M.T., and Hren, M.T., 2022, A process-based analysis of precipitation isotopes and topography in the Patagonian Andes, with implications for the study of paleotopography (in preparation).

Chang, Q., Brandon, M.T., and Hren, M.T., 2022, Topography, evaporation, and precipitation isotopes across the Patagonian Andes (in review). 
